This and also: How will mediation benefit me? are often the question that those curious about meditation have and are often met with answers such as: A: Why does there need to be a point? Let go. B: *Some vague waffly answer* I don’t think either of these are good or helpful answers for beginners so I will attempt to provide my own answer in ~250 words. When I say meditation, I am referring to mindfulness/acceptance meditation. The main point of meditation in ~250 words. So one thing I have learned through meditation is that it can be helpful to think about yourself as being different from your mind (Prior to meditation I would have considered them as one and the same, I am my mind and my mind is me). Many of us have complicated relationships with our own minds. Negative and ruminatory thoughts may be far more present than we would like. In some cases our minds can go as far as to make life a living hell for us. Many of us try at great lengths to fight or ignore these thoughts, strategies that rarely work. Mindfulness at its core is, I believe, a far more effective and sustainable way of dealing with such thoughts. Imagine that at the flick of the switch you could totally disengage with your noisy troubled mind*? This would, as you can imagine, be a highly useful life skill for almost anyone to have. While you might develop an enhanced ability to detach yourself from your mind it is important to stress that this is isn’t the same as learning to hide from or avoid your thoughts. The process, (highly summarised) involves observing your mind and the thoughts within and accepting whatever comes up without engaging. At first you will inevitably engage, but with practice, the speed with which you realise you have engaged and return back, will increase. Each such notice-return ‘rep’ can be though of as the mental equivalent of a physical ‘rep’ in the gym. Do for your mind with meditation, what you would do for your body in the gym. ***** And if you currently have a peaceful relationship with your mind? Well good for you! :) But as our favourite chancellor would say: “Better to fix the roof while the sun is shining” and in this case at least the metaphor is, I believe, apt. *Somewhat like alcohol but without the problems that alcohol can bring. If you disagree partly or completely with my take on the main point of meditation, please feel free to comment below. If you are interested I have written 2 rather more verbose articles about mindfullness/acceptance meditation that can be found in my FB’s notes section, with the following titles: 1. Meditation. New age bullshit or powerful tool. 2. The biggest takeaway from mindfulness meditation? A shout out to the person who introduced me to, and taught me the majority of what I know about mindfulness meditation. Grazie.